.\" cloud-localds (1) manual page
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Thomas Bechtold <thomasbechtold@jpberlin.de>
.\" License: GPL-3
.\"

.TH cloud-localds 1 "July 2013" cloud\-utils "cloud\-utils"
.SH NAME
cloud-localds \- create a disk for cloud-init to utilize nocloud
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cloud-localds
[options] output user-data [meta-data]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cloud-localds
creates a disk-image with user-data and/or meta-data for
.BR cloud-init (1).
user-data can contain everything which is supported by
.BR cloud-init (1)
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-disk_format =\fIDISKFORMAT\fR
Disk format to output. See
.BR qemu-img (1)
for allowed disk formats.
Default is raw.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filesystem =\fIFORMAT\fR
Filesystem format. Allowed formats are vfat and iso.
Default is iso9660.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage.

.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interfaces
Write network interfaces file into metadata.

.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-dsmode =\fIMODE\fR
Add dsmode to the metadata. Allowed are local or net.
Default in
.BR cloud-init (1)
is net.

.SH EXAMPLES
This example creates a disk image with user-data which can be used to start a cloud image which supports
.BR cloud-init (1).

.IP "Create some user-data:"
.IP
.PP
.nf
.RS
cat > my-user-data <<EOF
password: passw0rd
chpasswd: { expire: False }
ssh_pwauth: True
EOF
.RE
.fi
.PP

.IP "Create the disk image which contains the user-data:"
.IP
.PP
.nf
.RS
cloud-localds my-seed.img my-user-data
.RE
.fi
.PP

.IP "Boot the cloud-image:"
.IP
.PP
.nf
.RS
qemu -net nic -net user -hda cloud-image.img -hdb my-seed.img -m 512
.RE
.fi
.PP
cloud-image.img is a image which supports
.BR cloud-init (1)
during the boot process.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cloud-init (1),
.BR qemu-img (1),
.BR qemu (1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Thomas Bechtold <thomasbechtold@jpberlin.de> for Debian systems (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by the Free Software Foundation.
