.TH growpart 1 "25 Feb 2011" cloud\-utils "cloud\-utils"
.SH NAME
growpart \- extend a partition in a partition table to fill available space

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "growpart [OPTIONS] DISK PARTITION\-NUMBER"

growpart partition
   rewrite partition table so that partition takes up all the space it can
   options:
    -h | --help      print Usage an exit
         --fudge F   if part could be resized, but change would be
                     less than 'F', do not resize (default: 20480)
    -N | --dry-run   only report what would be done, show new 'sfdisk -d'
    -v | --verbose   increase verbosity / debug

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h | --help
Show usage and exit
.TP
.B -N | --dry-run
Only report what would be done
.TP
.B      --fudge COUNT
Only modify partition table if the given partition would grow more than COUNT sectors (512 bytes).  The default value is 20480 indicating that no change will be made unless more than 10M of space would be gained.
.TP
.B -v | --verbose
Give more information to stderr.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B DISK
The device or disk image to operate on
.TP
.B PARTITION\-NUMBER
The number of the partition to resize (counting from 1)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Rewrite a the partition table in a disk or disk image so that the given partition takes up as much space as it can.  After running, the partition will end at the end of the disk, or at the beginning of the next partition.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Extend partition 1 in /dev/sda to fill empty space until end of disk or next partitiong
   growpart /dev/sda 1
.TP
Extend partition 2 in disk image my.image.
   growpart my.image 2

.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if the partition was sucessfully grown or if --dry-run was specified and it could be grown. The exit status is 1 if the partition could not be grown due to lack of available space. The exit status is 2 if an error occured.


.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Scott Moser <smoser@canonical.com> for Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
